Q1.What is EC2, Why do we need EC2 service in cloud computing ?
-->With help of EC2 we cretae an virtual machine called as instances in EC2.
   Bcz it provide scalability, fault tolerance, high availability with help of different resources.
   We have only pay for what we use.
   Anytime we create instances when we no need after that simply delete that m/c.

Q2.Features of Amazon EC2 ?
-->it provide different types of machine we create as own requirement on the basis work loads.
   On our demand we scale up & scale down on our demand.
   We also choose different price model as our requirement.
   
Q3.What is Hypervisor ? and its types ?
--> It is an software that creates and runs virtual machines on hardware
    Types Bare metal and Hosted
    Bare metal means these hypervisors run directly on hardware without need any OS.
    we use Xzen in AWS,
    Hosted means it runs on OS. SO it will takes hardware resources from host OS. EX:- Virtual Box.
                      
Q4.Where we use hypervisor
--> on hardware to run machine.

Q5.Steps to create an EC2 instance.
--> Give name of instance 
    Choose AMI as our requirement AMI decide os like Redhat,ubuntu,linux
    Choose instance types like how many cpu, ram we required.
    Generate key pair either you have already a key pair choose key pairs
    choose Network group and set inbound and outbound rules.
    Specify how many ram required

Q6.EC2 Instance state ?
--> PENDING
    RUNNING
    STOPPING
    STOP
    SHUTTING-DOWN
    TERMINATED

Q7.How many types of EC2 Instance-State codes ?
--> 

Q8.What is the meaning of server hibernating mode ?
--> When we hibernate our instance after outinstance go to sleep mode.

Q9.What is KMS ?
--> Basically is an service use for encryption of columes.
    KMS for key with help of keys Volumes are encrypted.
    
Q10.AWS Amazon EC2 Instance types ?
--> General purpose
    Compute optimized
    Memory optimized
    Storage optimized
    Accelerated computing.

Q11.How many types of status checks happen in aws ?
--> 2/2 - ALL ok
    0/1-  Software issue
    0/2-  hardware issue

Q12.When we see the global view option in ec2 service ?
--> It shows All regions of aws and how many resources you are create in EC2.

Q13.When we logged into the cloud account by default why do we always jump into the north virginia region, why it’s most popular ?
--> Bcz it is an 1st region launched by AWS 
    When any new service oer resources are comes in AWS so 1st it launch in VIRGINIAN region,
    High availability of this region bcz It has 6 AZs.

Q14.What are EBS Volumes and its types ?
--> EBS is an network level storage and it is persistent.
    And data are stored in the form of blocks and os runs on these volums.
    General purpose SDD 
    Provisioned IOPSSDD
    Throughput HDD 

Q15.Purpose of Using EBS volumes ?
--> It is an network level storage 
    Persistent 
    As our own requirement we increase and decrease size.
    It is easy to take backup (snapshot)
    It easy to detach and attach to another instance no chances to data lost.
    
Q16.How many types of purchasing options do we have in aws ec2 ?
-->  On demand- 
     Dedicated host
     Dedicated instance 
     Spot instance
     Reserved instance

Q17.Difference between AWS AMI Image & AWS Template ?
--> We create Template for autoscaling group it means when instance are created same replica \
    created which we are configured in template.    
    AWS AMI image means backup of software or volume
    suppose that you have instamce all webserver application are configured and you need another instance 
    with same configuration so why we need to waste time for creating another instance
    Create Image of existing instance after create instamce from AMI IMAGE. 

Q18.What is NIC & it’s types ?
--> 

Q19.What is elastic IP ? & WHY were we used ?
--> Elastic IP means static like it will not change over time when we stopped an EC2 machine
    bcz it will change when we stopped an ec2 m/c.

Q20.What is the snapshot of why we use it ?
--> snapshot is an backup and point-in-copy of ebs volumes
    for backup purpose we use snapshot.

Q21.How can we save money in snapshot costing, if an automated snapshot has been created ?
--> for that we create snapshot 

Q22.What is the lifecycle manager in snapshot ?
--> suppose we have to take backup/snapshot of volumes daily,monthly,weekly
    For that create lifecycle manager policy defines time and frequency on the basis
    of policy it takes snapshot at given time.

Q23.How does the Amazon lifecycle manager work ?
--> we create policy and add volums with help of tags & defines frequency and time
    on the basis of frquency and given time it takes snapshot
    suppose we give frquency dailt specify time 9:00AM every day at 9:00AM snapshot will be created.

Q24.Difference between Security Group & NACL ?
--> SG work on instance level where nacl are stateless
    NACL work on subnet and VPC level where dg are stateful.

Q25.What are NACL & Its types ?
--> NACL are apply on subnet level so by default rules is apply to all instances which are in subnet.
    TYPES:- Default NACL & Custom NACL.
    When we create a New VPC so default NACL are created it allows for all inbound outbounf traffic.
    Where custom nacl are created by user as our requirement we also for inbound and outbound rules.

Q26.How many IP Addresses can we attach to the instances ?
--> Public and private.

Q27.How many types of volume states do we have ?
--> Creating
    available
    In use
    Deleting 
    Deleted.

Q28.What is a key pair, and its types ?
--> Key pair is an secure login information for of your instances
    with help of key pair we login an remote m/c on our local machine
    Public key and pvt key
    Public is stored to AWS and pvt key files is store on our local m/c.

Q29.What is load balancer and its types ?
--> load balancer distributes incoming web application traffic across multiple targets/instances in multiple AZ.
    Types :- classical, application, network and gateway.

Q30. How does the load balancer work in the backend? Can you explain it ?
--> Whenever traffic comes on load balancer listeners check for connection request from clients with help of ports what you configured
    it will forward tarffic to registered targets using round robin algorithm.
    LB continously monitor instance health using ping if any instance is unhealthhy it will forward traffic to only healthy instances.
    

Q31. Features of Load Balancers ?
--> 

Q32. What is ASG ? & Its types ?
--> Basically ASG will decide desire, maximum, minimum size of autoscaling group.
    We wiil define capacity of instances as per our requirement we also give target values of cpu
    utilization. On the basis of that it will scale up and scale down targets when traffic increases.

Q33. What is a Health Check ?
--> It check healths of instance where an instance face any problem like software or hardware problem.

Q34. What is the threshold ?
--> it means specific value limit. Whenever it reaches value limit after action is performed.

Q35.What is the group of LB ?
--> 

Q36.Why do we prefer ALB over ALB ?
-->   

Q37.Difference between Web server & Application server ?
-->

Q38.What is the target group ?
--> When we use ALB at that time we have to create Target group
    We add instances in target group, and add group to ALB.
    
Q39.What is the desired capacity in ASG ?
--> It means minumim no of running servers when we launch ASG after it creates instances
    Suppose we have to give Desired capacity 2 so in every situation minimum 3 instances runs load will increase or decrease no matters.

Q40.How many types of the Scaling option ?
--> Vertical scaling
    Horizontal Scaling.

Q41.Scaling plans ?
-->

Q42.Types Auto scaling
--> Dynamic scaling
    Predictive scaling 
    Schedule Scaling 

Q43.Difference between vertical scaling and horizontal scaling ?
--> Vertical scaling:- we scale up manually existing instance rather than create replica of existing instance.
    Horizontal Scaling:- It means whenever traffic increses it will automatically scale up same replica of instance what will you configure in template

Q44.Difference between AMI & Snapshot ?
--> AMI consist of application servers and os which are need to create instances
    Snapshot is backup of volumes.

Q45.What is difference between EBS/EFS/S3
--> EBS :- Ebs is an block level storage & block storage divide data into blocks
           OS are install in EBS & It is used in form of HDD and SSD.
    EFS:- 
    S3:- It is an object level storage when we storage any object it will store as it is not divides into blocks
         We store meta data.

