INTRODUCTION:-
Q.1 What is cloud computing?
-It deliver on demand computing services server ,storage ,database,application, networking tools and its resources over the internet.
-All are these services present at remote location anywhere and anytime.
-We take these service via internet.So disadvantage of cc is without internet we can`t able to acces cloud services.
-When you want to use those services you are going to pay for services.
-When you are done using it when you no need for services you are not going to pay anymore.
-So basically Cloud give you really nice interface you can easily access.
-Like tarditional way you need servers ,manpower to handle these serers ,cooling system,all network devices,hardware if your website grows you need more servers. 
-In CC you no need all those resources only required internet to acess all those cloud services.

Q2.Deployment models in Cloud
ANS-    Public cloud
        Private cloud
        Hybrid cloud
        community cloud

Q3.Service models in cloud?
ANS-    SAAS
        PAAS
        IAAS

Q4.Architecture of a cloud


Q5.AWS global insfra count
ANS: 32 geographical regions in wolrd. AWS build there infra in 32 region
     And 102 availibilty centers in regions.

Q6.Q.So why we use regions.
-to solve latency problem like suppose you are in mumbai region when you search and website and that website 
 hosted in another region like canada. so it takes time to response . 
-But any person in canada region and he search web within second response it. Bcz region is near.
-when you hosted any website in near by region.And whenever you search web it response it within sec
-Choosing a region close to your users can reduce latency.

Q7.What is service ?and what are resources?
ANS:- Resources are entity which are present in service.
        



IAM:-----
Q1.HOW MANY RESOURCES DO WE HAVE IN IAM.
ANS- 4  A)user
        b)groups
        c)policies
        d)roles
Q2.DEPLOYMENT MODEL IN IAM?

Q3.IDENTITIES IN IAM?
ANS- Who can access resources like an user is an identity.

Q4.WHAT IS AN IAM USER?
ANS- It is an entity/person created by root user 
     It is an entity Who can use/interact with aws resources.

Q5.WHAT IS THE IAM GROUP?
ANS-  IAM group is collection of user.
      We have to give permission to an 10 user.
      Its easy to create a group add 10 user and attach permission.

Q6.WHAT IS AN IAM POLICY
ANS- Policy nothing but bunch of permission.
     We create cutomize policy for an user requirement.
     Create policy select effect what action can be allow for resources.

Q7.WHAT IS IAM ROLE
ANS-  It is more secure way to access any resource in ec2 Without sharing any credentials.
      for that create role and select service where we attach role and add permision like which resource
      you need on ec2 and create role.

Q8.Where do we attach identity based policy?
ANS- We attach identity based policy to an user, groups and role.

Q9.Where do we attach resource based policy?
ANS- WE attach resource based to an resources.

Q10.can we able to create policy via json code?
ANS- Yes

Q11.If one user has created by default, which permission has been assigned to that user?
- When user is create no permission user does not have any permission.

Q12.What is dominar policy
ANS- powerfull permission given to an user

Q13.What is ARN?What are the field of arn?
ANS- ARN is an unique identity gives to any user or resources
        Fields- arn
                partition
                service
                region
                accountid
                resources id

Q14.How many types of ARN partition?
ANS- 3 partition : a]standard partition 
                   b] us government cloud.
                   c] aws china

Q15.What are the tags?
ANS- Unique identity assign to an user or resources
     It consist of key and value.
     Key is an identifier and values provides information.
     It will helpful to identity which user are from which environment like tester and developer.
